assignment-01.md, before:



# CMPS 2200 Assignment 1

**Name:** Keith J Mitchell


In this assignment, you will learn more about asymptotic notation, parallelism, functional languages, and algorithmic cost models. As in the recitation, some of your answer will go here and some will go in `main.py`. You are welcome to edit this `assignment-01.md` file directly, or print and fill in by hand. If you do the latter, please scan to a file `assignment-01.pdf` and push to your github repository. 
  
  

1. (2 pts ea) **Asymptotic notation** (12 pts)

  - 1a. Is $2^{n+1} \in O(2^n)$? Why or why not? 

No, 2^n is not asymptotically dominant over 2^(n+1) as the limit method results in the constant of 2 which is greater than 0 and not infinity, meaning they are asymptotically equal to one another.

  - 1b. Is $2^{2^n} \in O(2^n)$? Why or why not?     

No, 2^n is not asymptotically dominant over 2^(2^n) as the limit method yields the result of infinity, meaning 2^n is being asymptotically dominated. 

  - 1c. Is $n^{1.01} \in O(\mathrm{log}^2 n)$?    

No, as the limit method results in infinity meaning log^2(n) is asymptotically dominated by n^1.01 

  - 1d. Is $n^{1.01} \in \Omega(\mathrm{log}^2 n)$?  

Yes, log^2(n) is asymptotically dominated by n^1.01 as the limit method results in 0.

  - 1e. Is $\sqrt{n} \in O((\mathrm{log} n)^3)$?  

No, as the use of the limit method achieves a value of 0 which means log(n)^3 is being asymptotically dominated. 

  - 1f. Is $\sqrt{n} \in \Omega((\mathrm{log} n)^3)$?  

Yes, as the use of the limit method achieves a value of infinity meaning sqrt(n) asymptotically dominates log(n)^3.


2. **SPARC to Python** (12 pts)

Consider the following SPARC code of the Fibonacci sequence, which is the series of numbers where each number is the sum of the two preceding numbers. For example, 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144, 233, 377, 610 ... 
$$
\begin{array}{l}
\mathit{foo}~x =   \\
~~~~\texttt{if}{}~~x \le 1~~\texttt{then}{}\\
~~~~~~~~x\\   
~~~~\texttt{else}\\
~~~~~~~~\texttt{let}{}~~(ra, rb) = (\mathit{foo}~(x-1))~~,~~(\mathit{foo}~(x-2))~~\texttt{in}{}\\  
~~~~~~~~~~~~ra + rb\\  
~~~~~~~~\texttt{end}{}.\\
\end{array}
$$ 

  - 2a. (6 pts) Translate this to Python code -- fill in the `def foo` method in `main.py`  

  - 2b. (6 pts) What does this function do, in your own words?  

.  This function recursively calls itself x amount of times when the value of x is greater than 1. In doing so, it returns the Fibonacci sequence number that matches the parameter value of x. This is achieved by adding the two numbers returned when the x value minus one and two are both called For example, when the foo function is called with an x value of 7, the returned value is 8 as the values for 5 (3) and 6 (5) added together equal 8
  

3. **Parallelism and recursion** (26 pts)

Consider the following function:  

```python
def longest_run(myarray, key)
   """
    Input:
      `myarray`: a list of ints
      `key`: an int
    Return:
      the longest continuous sequence of `key` in `myarray`
   """
```
E.g., `longest_run([2,12,12,8,12,12,12,0,12,1], 12) == 3`  
 
  - 3a. (7 pts) First, implement an iterative, sequential version of `longest_run` in `main.py`.  

  - 3b. (4 pts) What is the Work and Span of this implementation?  

.  
.  
.  
.  
.  
.  
.  
.  
.  


  - 3c. (7 pts) Next, implement a `longest_run_recursive`, a recursive, divide and conquer implementation. This is analogous to our implementation of `sum_list_recursive`. To do so, you will need to think about how to combine partial solutions from each recursive call. Make use of the provided class `Result`.   

  - 3d. (4 pts) What is the Work and Span of this sequential algorithm?  
.  
.  
.  
.  
.  
.  
.  
.  
.  
.  
.  


  - 3e. (4 pts) Assume that we parallelize in a similar way we did with `sum_list_recursive`. That is, each recursive call spawns a new thread. What is the Work and Span of this algorithm?  

.  
.  
.  
.  
.  
.  
.  
.

Commit message:

Implemented the longest_run_recursive function as well as answered the questions in the mdf file titled 'Assignment 1'

assignment-01.md, after:



# CMPS 2200 Assignment 1

**Name:** Keith J Mitchell


In this assignment, you will learn more about asymptotic notation, parallelism, functional languages, and algorithmic cost models. As in the recitation, some of your answer will go here and some will go in `main.py`. You are welcome to edit this `assignment-01.md` file directly, or print and fill in by hand. If you do the latter, please scan to a file `assignment-01.pdf` and push to your github repository. 
  
  

1. (2 pts ea) **Asymptotic notation** (12 pts)

  - 1a. Is $2^{n+1} \in O(2^n)$? Why or why not? 

No, 2^n is not asymptotically dominant over 2^(n+1) as the limit method results in the constant of 2 which is greater than 0 and not infinity, meaning they are asymptotically equal to one another.

  - 1b. Is $2^{2^n} \in O(2^n)$? Why or why not?     

No, 2^n is not asymptotically dominant over 2^(2^n) as the limit method yields the result of infinity, meaning 2^n is being asymptotically dominated. 

  - 1c. Is $n^{1.01} \in O(\mathrm{log}^2 n)$?    

No, as the limit method results in infinity meaning log^2(n) is asymptotically dominated by n^1.01 

  - 1d. Is $n^{1.01} \in \Omega(\mathrm{log}^2 n)$?  

Yes, log^2(n) is asymptotically dominated by n^1.01 as the limit method results in 0.

  - 1e. Is $\sqrt{n} \in O((\mathrm{log} n)^3)$?  

No, as the use of the limit method achieves a value of 0 which means log(n)^3 is being asymptotically dominated. 

  - 1f. Is $\sqrt{n} \in \Omega((\mathrm{log} n)^3)$?  

Yes, as the use of the limit method achieves a value of infinity meaning sqrt(n) asymptotically dominates log(n)^3.


2. **SPARC to Python** (12 pts)

Consider the following SPARC code of the Fibonacci sequence, which is the series of numbers where each number is the sum of the two preceding numbers. For example, 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144, 233, 377, 610 ... 
$$
\begin{array}{l}
\mathit{foo}~x =   \\
~~~~\texttt{if}{}~~x \le 1~~\texttt{then}{}\\
~~~~~~~~x\\   
~~~~\texttt{else}\\
~~~~~~~~\texttt{let}{}~~(ra, rb) = (\mathit{foo}~(x-1))~~,~~(\mathit{foo}~(x-2))~~\texttt{in}{}\\  
~~~~~~~~~~~~ra + rb\\  
~~~~~~~~\texttt{end}{}.\\
\end{array}
$$ 

  - 2a. (6 pts) Translate this to Python code -- fill in the `def foo` method in `main.py`  

  - 2b. (6 pts) What does this function do, in your own words?  

.  This function recursively calls itself x amount of times when the value of x is greater than 1. In doing so, it returns the Fibonacci sequence number that matches the parameter value of x. This is achieved by adding the two numbers returned when the x value minus one and two are both called For example, when the foo function is called with an x value of 7, the returned value is 8 as the values for 5 (3) and 6 (5) added together equal 8
  

3. **Parallelism and recursion** (26 pts)

Consider the following function:  

```python
def longest_run(myarray, key)
   """
    Input:
      `myarray`: a list of ints
      `key`: an int
    Return:
      the longest continuous sequence of `key` in `myarray`
   """
```
E.g., `longest_run([2,12,12,8,12,12,12,0,12,1], 12) == 3`  
 
  - 3a. (7 pts) First, implement an iterative, sequential version of `longest_run` in `main.py`.  

  - 3b. (4 pts) What is the Work and Span of this implementation?  

.  The Work and Span for this implementation are both 10 as they will both take the same amount of time in order to traverse the list of length 10 as the function demands the list to be iterated over one full time.


  - 3c. (7 pts) Next, implement a `longest_run_recursive`, a recursive, divide and conquer implementation. This is analogous to our implementation of `sum_list_recursive`. To do so, you will need to think about how to combine partial solutions from each recursive call. Make use of the provided class `Result`.   

  - 3d. (4 pts) What is the Work and Span of this sequential algorithm?  

.  The work of this algorithm is 28 as there are 28 nodes in the breakdown and buildup of the list. The span of the algorithm is 9 as the longest path yields a total of 9 nodes.

  - 3e. (4 pts) Assume that we parallelize in a similar way we did with `sum_list_recursive`. That is, each recursive call spawns a new thread. What is the Work and Span of this algorithm?  

.  The work of the parallelized algorithm would drop to 19 and the span would also decrease to 4 as only the combinations would be counted, essentially removing the first half of the tree.
